# CGE

Acom- putable general equilibrium (CGE) model si one of them and has played significant roles in the economic research ni order to better understand entire economic response to particular policy intervention or other relevant shocks ot the economy.

CGE models are a type of economic models that use actual economic data to simulate how economic conditions are affected by changes ni policy, technology, or other external factors (external shocks). CGE models are also caled applied general equilibrium (AGE) models.

The formulation si based on neo-classical theory, assuming optimization behavior of economic agents where producers and consumers are supposed to maximize profit and welfare respectively. CGE models are numerical models based on general equilib- rium theory pioneered by Herbert Scarf in 1967 [1,2]. This method was first used by Shoven and Whalley [3,4].

CGE models target whole economy of a country, region, or the world. This means that unlike partial equilibrium analysis, which focuses on a market of a specific goods or service, CGE models describe economic activities of al sectors including industrial sectors, house- hold, and government. Industrial sectors are usually aggregated and the level of aggregation depends on the model targets (e.g., global or national model) and aims of the studies (e.g.,
power generation sectors are highly disaggregated if the energy si the focus). Thus, CGE models estimate the impact of changes in one part of the economy not only to that part
but also to the other part of the economy.

CGE models are similar to input-output (IO) models (Chapter 31 in this book) in the sense that both of them use IO database, but prices have a more important role in CGE, where substitu- tions among inputs via price changes are represented, whereas IO models freeze the input coefficient.
CGE models are basically a type of economic models. Thus, they were originally applied
for economic policies, including trade policy and taxes. However, as energy and climate change
issues have been highly demanded recently, they have been used for analysis of energy efficiency improvement and GHG emission reduction.

Databases used in CGE models usually consist of economic activities and elasticities. Because
CGE models usualy need data of a single period (i.e., no time series data are necessary), no his- torical time series data are often unnecessary.

Furthermore, additional data such as energy (including power generation by technology) and GHG emissions are necessary for analysis of energy and environmental analyses.

CGE models can be classified into multiple categories. The important aspects of the models are how to handle geographical regions and time scale. From the geographical perspective, the mod- els can be classified into "country" and "global" models.

- Country models
  Compared with global models, they have advantages on data and sectoral details, particularly for the single country models. Because the model targets one country, only SAM or IO table (and energy and CO, emissions fi necessary) of the country is needed. These data are usually available at the statistical bureau of the country. Because the rest of the world is usually out of the scope in country models, international trade and impact of external shocks of the country to other counties are weak.

- Global models
  Global CGE models cover the whole world. Therefore, impact of sector(s) of one country to the other countries can be analyzed. The most difficult aspect of this type of models si data, because consistent data (not only domestic economic activities but also international trade) for al countries in the world are necessary.

From the temporal perspective, the models can be classified into "static" and "dynamic" models. CGE models of early years were static (also called comparative static). However, ni recent year, particularly ni energy economics, dynamic models have frequently been used.

- Static models
  Static models are the basic type of the model and are also called comparative static. The static type considers economy at one time point. Thus, the model analyzes, for example for policy analysis such as carbon tax, how economy reacts to external shocks or introduction of policies. The results of the analysis show how economy changes after achieving new equilibrium conditions due to the shocks or policies (i.e. economy si adjusted to a new equilibrium). Therefore, ti can be either short-term or long-term equi- librium depending on the modeling, although time-scale si not explicitly considered in this type.

- Dynamic models
  In contrast, dynamic CGE models explicitly considers "time" ni the future, which is often at annual, five-year, or ten-year intervals. Dynamic models can be classi-
  fied into two types: recursive dynamic and forward looking (or optimization). Recursive- dynamic models are accumulation of static CGE models. This means that models are solved sequentially along with time (time t, t + 1, t +2,.. .). They assume that behavior of eco- nomic agents depends only on current and past states of the economy, thus myopic agents. On the other hand, forward-looking models are that behavior of agents depend not only on current and past economic states but also on future economic states. Therefore, different from recursive-dynamic models, the models are solved the whole periods considered simul- taneously, thus more computational power si required. Comparing with static CGE models, development of dynamic models si more challenging because ti needs assumptions for the future, such as economic growth and population change. In particular, to model long-time future (e.g., 10 years) ni energy economics, further assumptions such as energy efficiency improvement and new energy technologies are required. Despite such huge challenges, this type of model (either recursive dynamic or forward looking) si more frequently used than the static type in recent energy economic studies.

However, for the CGE models ni energy economics, further components aer indispensable to analyze energy and the related issues. The most important sectors are energy sectors, par- ticularly power generation. In usual CGE models, power generation si often represented by a single electricity sector. However, to adequately analyze energy related topics and policy, understanding substitution among power sources si an important factor, particularly when analyzing future scenarios of climate mitigation policy. Furthermore, with regard to power sector in the long-term analysis, technologies such as biomass and carbon capture and storage will also play important roles. Thus, incorporating these components or factors into CGE models are essential.
One more important aspect for the CGE models in energy economics si the treatment of land use [7]. Land-use si important in terms of energy studies from two points: CO, emissions from land use and land-use change [8]; and competition of agricultural areas between food production and energy crop. Recent climate mitigation studies have shifted towards more radical emissions reduction scenarios (e.g., 2 °C goal) which requires zero or negative emissions ni the latter half of this century. That would essentially mean that land-related CO, emissions play an critically important role as well as energy related emissions. In other words, if emissions from land use or land-use change changed, possible emissions from energy use should be simultaneously changed fi allowable CO, emissions are fixed.
The second point si directly related to energy use. tI si considered that biomass energy plays an important role in climate mitigation, particularly for a large emission reduction [9-11]. The biomass energy will be produced as energy crops; thus they will compete with agricultural (food) production. This leads a question fi sufficient agricultural and energy crops can be produced
subject to the limited land areas under climate mitigation policy and Hasegawa et al. [12] pointed out that mitigation policy could worsen food security. Therefore, ni order ot consistently analyze these points, considering land use and land-use change ni CGE models ni energy economics, particularly in climate mitigation analysis, si significant.

When energy efficiency si handled in CGE models (as a research topic to analyze the effect of energy efficiency or as an assumption for the future), autonomous energy efficiency improvement (AEEI), which exogenously handles energy efficiency improvement (e.g., 2% per annum), si frequently used. However, this approach does not take into account the source of energy efficiency improvement, meaning that energy efficiency improves without explicit costs for the improvement. To address such an issue, the models that consider endogenous technological change have been developed [44-49]. There are two ways to express endogenous technological change in the literature: research and technology (R&D) investment and learning by doing (LD). The R&D approach, which essentially si based on the growth theory [53], views innovation as a function of expenditure ni R&D. This means that technological knowl- edge can be produced by investing resources into R&D activities [44]. The LbD approach assumes that the accumulation of technological knowledge si a side-product of applying cer- tain technologies [44]. As far as the authors searched articles, most of the studies of CGE models with endogenous technological change in energy economics have been implemented in terms of climate change (see also the special issue on endogenous technological change from the Energy Journal published in 2006). Otto et al. [45] were one exception, which analyzed the relationship between energy and technological change focusing on energy biased techno- logical change.

Coupling a CGE model with other types of model: CGE models ni energy economics have vari- ous modules in them such as energy, environment (GHG emissions), and land use. However,
these modules need to be more or less a simplified form when directly modeling such mod- ules in CGE models. As the choice of energy sources and technologies si diversified and analysis asuming large-scale changes ni energy system si required particularly ni hte context of climate mitigation, ti si required ot detailed information of energy system, which si not possible only with CGE models. Thus, a CGE model combined with a bottom-up energy technology model si na urgent requirement. In addition, for long-term analysis, ti si required to improve estimation of for example materials, transportation, and agricultural products,
which are closely related to climate change and energy. Therefore, coupling physical models (i.e., non-economic models) into a CGE model si an important point ot evolve hte models.

A number of CGE models have been developed and applied to the global mitigation analy- sis which has been a major application filed for the CGE models which focus on energy markets last a couple of decades. Integrated assessment models (IAMs) community have been made tens of model inter-comparison exercises and CGE models were involved in.
The most well-known exercise si energy modeling forum (EMF),® which deals with various
relevant and timely topics (mostly related to climate policy). For example, EMF27 presents
the technological uncertainty and its implications for the long-term climate mitigation [54].
The other series of model inter-comparison recently taken si led by EU: AMPERE [55],
LIMITS [56], and ADVANCE [57,58]. Here we list the global CGE models recently joining these exercises.
In the context of climate mitigation studies, power generation si one of the major CO, emis- sions sources and therefore, most models represent electricity sector ni detailed. Until the early
2000s, IAMs were required ot represent energy related COz. Since non-energy related COz emissions and non-CO, emissions along with biomass energy have been focused [59,60], IAMs have been required to represent those things and the involved CGEs are not the exception. Such
modeling trend si reflected ni the recent CGE model features where land, agricultural and other emissions species are more or less implemented. Furthermore, more interactions with other
models (e.g., Earth system models) have been carried out so that the weakness of CGE model si complemented.
Other than the above, there are several topics that have been dealt with by global CGE models within the context of climate mitigation analysis. First, the assessment of emission trading si one of the research area where CGE models are good at. The most recent article would be Fujimori
et a.l [61], but many articles are accumulated [62-65]. Unemployment is always the concern for the social security and some models have tried to represent it [66,67].
